in a similar fashion the small amounts
of thrombin to a initially produced
activates plasma factor 8 to factor a
day simultaneously releasing the factor
8 from its plasma transporter the large
von Willebrand factor vwf platelet
membrane bound factor 8a accumulates
factor 9a produced by the TF factor 7 a
complex to form the intrinsic factor 10
ace this complex is six orders of
magnitude more active than factor 9a in
factor 10 activation it rapidly
activates more factor 10 to factor 10a
the factor 8a 9 a complex is 50 fold
more efficient for factor 10a activation
than the tissue factor 7 a complex which
is down regulated by TF P I and the
factor 8 a 9 a complex assumes the major
role in factor 10 a generation some of
the factor 8a after activation cleavages
spontaneously loses a peptide fragment
which corresponds to the a2 domain prior
to forming the complex with factor 9a
this dissociation process leads to
inactivation of those factor 8a
molecules prothrombin ease 5 a 10a and
the intrinsic factor 10 a's 89a are
protected from inhibition by
antithrombin and other plasma inhibitors
when in the complex form throughout this
process anticoagulant reactions compete
with the procoagulant reactions to
produce a threshold limited reaction
system such that the intensity of the
stimulus must be sufficient to provoke a
full-blown procoagulant response the
throbbin initially produced may also
bind to vascular's
Ramba Magellan TM constitutively present
on the vascular endothelial cell and
activates protein c2 activated protein C
APC this enzyme down regulates the
reaction by competitively binding and
cleaving the two active cofactors in
their respective a two regions leading
to inactivation of the intrinsic factor
Tenet's 8a 9a and prothrombin yz5 a 10-8
complexes
if the pathologic stimulus is sufficient
to overcome the stoichiometric and
dynamic inhibitory systems the reaction
will proceed with thrombin continuing to
produce its activation products factor
13 the precursor to the transglutaminase
factor 13 a and fibrinogen are cleaved
by the small amounts of thrombin
initially produced the products of
fibrinogen cleavage by throbbin begin to
be observed when less than two-tenths
percent of the total thrombin 2a to be
ultimately accumulated is produced
fibrin polymerization resulting in a
visible clot occurs when approximately
35% of the a peptides and 10 to 15% of
the B peptides are released the factor
13 a cross-linking process occurs
coincidentally with this initial fibrin
formation the aggregated platelets and
fibrin resulting from throb information
are the principal components of initial
vascular plug formation and now provide
the engine which achieves hemostasis
when a sufficient stimulus overcomes the
synergistic inhibitor threshold the
accumulating mass of activated platelets
will support increasing intrinsic factor
10 A's 8 a 9 a and prothrombin ace 5 a
10 a formation on their surfaces at
specific platelet receptors and
overwhelm the available local inhibitor
concentration these platelet bound
procoagulant catalysts execute the
propagation phase of the reaction during
which massive amounts of thrombin are
produced efficiently and continuously as
long as more blood enters the wound site
adding more platelets and resupplying
the plasma procoagulant catalytic
process the propagation of trauma
generation continues to expand now
independent of the initially presented
tissue factor TF as long as there is a
continuous supply of blood through flow
delivering new plasma procoagulant
reactants platelets and fibrinogen into
the site of perforation in the vascular
endothelium leading to increased
platelet and cross-linked fibrin
accumulation once flow has ceased
because of the formation of a dam the
overwhelming concentration of inhibitors
present in blood including TFP i
antithrombin heparin cofactor to alpha 2
macroglobulin and alpha 1-antitrypsin
inhibit the various reactants as they
dissociate from their respective
complexes in the vasculature downstream
from the growing thrombus procoagulant
enzymes and active cofactors escaping
from the wound site are quenched rapidly
under normal circumstances by the
stoichiometric and dynamic inhibitory
systems of blood in cooperation with
elements of the vascular endothelium TFP
i inhibits the tissue factor factor 7 a
factor 10 a product complex thrombin to
a binds to resident thrombomodulin
molecules constitutively present on the
vascular endothelial cells the resulting
complex TM 2a activates protein c 2 a pc
which in turn down regulates any
intrinsic factor 10 a's 89a the free
searing protease is 2 a 9 a 10 a of the
coagulation system in the plasma
environment are rapidly inhibited by the
surplus of antithrombin 80 molecules
this reaction is significantly
accelerated by the interaction of
antithrombin 80 with heparin sulfate
proteoglycans HSP presented
constitutively on the surface of the
vascular endothelial cells when
operating properly
this system of blood leakage attenuate
Nonna's hemostasis displays the
appropriate level of procoagulant
required to obstruct blood loss relevant
to the vascular insult but is precluded
from systemic activation of the
coagulation system the terms initiation
propagation and termination are selected
for the semantic description of
intellectually separable events during
the blood coagulation process the
presentations associated with these
three processes however are ongoing
continuously in the phenomenon of
hemostasis these intellectually
separable events can be further
subdivided into the particular reaction
sequences and can be identified
mechanistically as contributing to the
overall process in reality however each
of these sub events and major events of
the coagulation system with which they
are associated part of an ongoing
continuum in which initiation
propagation and termination reactions
occurring in an almost simultaneous
collage of events leading to clot
formation or elimination of clot forming
activities